NARRATOR: Previously,
on "Dance Academy".
-You didn't think we would
worry about you?
-Who's we?
-Everyone.
Your friends.
-Not friends here.
Have a great trip back.
-Listen, guys.
We're up against the last
day of re-enrollment.
Have any of you heard
anything?
-The I Quit speech?
I've heard it 100 times.
The next two weeks,
you're off sick.
No classes, no work.
Tell everyone you have
pharyngitis.
-Where's Sonny?
He's on right now.
-He was in an accident.
We're his family.
[theme music]
KAT NARRATING: Early risers.
Studies by clever boyfriends
show they tend to be more
positive and super successful.
Positivity.
That's the key.
Sure, I've got reasons
to be glum.
We all do.
But glum won't get me into
third year, no siree.
Boyfriends fact two.
Continuous exercise and smiling
are two activities
which release endorphins,
nature's antidepressants.
Therefore, if I keep this up,
I'm going to feel amazing.
And if I feel amazing, well,
this whole year will be a
piece of cake--
not that I'm allowed cake.
-Ah!
-Escape is futile, Earthling!
-Dudes, it's like dawn!
-So are you back or
are you back?
-Well, I figure this place
is as good as any to
cruise for a year.
-Cruise?
You have no idea how intense
her classes are right now.
-I'm back five minutes and
she already wants to
punch out my life.
[laughter]
-How do you possibly
have Gaga tickets?
-We have a private
afterparty--
Mardi Gras Gaga tickets.
-Squeal.
-There you are.
-So you know, Lucy?
I may scrape in a touch after
curfew tomorrow night.
-Actually, you'll be performing
in Le Catra-art,
and then heading directly
to the boarding house.
-Minor setback?
Count me in.
Well, that was embarrassing.
We have to set some ground
rules of behavior.
-Yes, we do.
I waited in my office for
you this morning again.
-Sorry.
I didn't realize our little
catch-ups were compulsory.
-You and I both acknowledged
they were issues last year, so
don't get narky when I check
on your progress.
-Yeah, I wasn't making
good friends at the
very top of our strategy.
-When you graduate, you can
cavort with the company girls
as much as you'd like.
Until then, I embarrass you
as much as I see fit.
Open your feet.
Surely it's not such an
impossible concept.
How long have you been
students here?
Open your feet.
Get your heels down.
-Is that Madame Patrova
back from the grave?
Madame Patrova would never
have put up with this
sloppiness from us when
we were students.
-Ah, she's right.
Madame would beat us with a
walking stick, and my delicate
skin would bruise so easily.
-Students, I'd like to introduce
Marcus Kane,
Artistic Director of
the Austin Ballet.
-Lucy's told me from holiday
boat to reveal the entirety of
my wisdom to the second
years, which should
take about 15 minutes.
-[laughing]
-So you just bat those sleepy
lashes and the Academy begs
you to come back?
-I have friends in
high places.
How was Barcelona?
-I have Lyme disease.
Official bed rest.
-Give me feeling, guys--
if not for me,
then for our guest.
-Ah, ballet teaches art.
We imprison you for ten hours
a day, then we complain when
you're not unique snowflakes.
Look.
There's this assignment I've
given my company before.
It's, um-- sorry, Zach.
Am I allowed to give
assignments?
-Nothing makes them happy.
-Good.
Now, to create different
characters, you need to step
outside yourselves and
your training.
Hmm?
Just let all that go.
Become actors.
Now, this piece you're doing,
I want you to find someone--
a non-dancer.
Study them from inside out.
What makes them tick?
Then I want you to
reinterpret your
performance as that person.
-Come on, Ricky.
Is Marcus single?
-Divorced, I believe.
How is that relevant?
We're old friends.
We haven't seen each
other in years.
-Hi.
-Out.
Out.
We're six weeks into term.
-Well, Christian and I could
do one-on-one classes.
It'd only be, what?
An extra 10 or 12
hours a week.
-Unfortunately, it's not just
a matter of making up what's
being missed.
You know your place here depends
on a scholarship.
The board told me
they've already
redistributed those funds.
-Well, they meet again
tomorrow, don't they?
We could take it to them--
please extenuating
circumstances.
-If it's too hard--
-We'll sort this
out, all right?
This is where you belong.
-Oh!
-Clumsy much?
-Sorry.
-Don't worry about it.
I've seen you around,
haven't I?
-There are millions of girls
who look like me.
It's a blonde thing.
No one really looks
at the face.
-Huh.
I'm Nick, by the way.
-I know.
I mean, you look like a Nick.
-Yeah.
-Nick-esque.
OK.
I'm going to head off now.
-So who'd you pick?
This is some pretty
angry stuff.
-That's what I was going for.
This guy who's not
a good person.
-It might sound namby-pamby,
but, um, the assignment's
about getting into this
guy's head, yeah?
And seeing things from
his perspective.
-OK.
So donuts help with
dengue fever?
-Get in!
-Kat, tell him he can't wear
this to his board interview.
-Kat, tell Tara I'm not dancing
for the board in a
suit and tie.
-So you and Lucy would have
spent a lot of time together
in these very hallways?
-How do you mean?
-She was pretty hot to trot
back then, wasn't she?
Her and Mom?
I've seen the pictures.
-Oh, you're Maive's daughter.
Oh, Grace.
I'm so sorry to hear about--
-Thanks.
I didn't know her.
So Lucy's something else, huh?
I only hope Javier
appreciates.
-Javier?
-Don't get me wrong.
He's handsome in a silver
fox kind of way.
And, you know, there's
the whole mansion
on the harbor thing.
But, would you date someone
who didn't like ballet?
-Hmm.
to say, for a scholarship
student, they fluctuate rather
alarmingly.
-Well, dancing isn't
about exams for me.
It never has been.
-Perhaps you might start by
explaining why you decided not
to come back at the
start of the year.
-Oh, man.
-I--
I just--
I couldn't.
-The school has invested a
significant amount of time and
money in you, Mr. Reed.
I think we--
we deserve more than that.
-Christian's sick, and he has
suffered a terrible tragedy in
the final semester.
-We were all saddened
by the loss.
But, um, if the other student
managed to come back on time--
-Christian was particularly
close to Sammy Lieberman.
But I'm sure he can better
articulate what he was going
through.
-Well, please, enlighten us.
-Christian, wait.
Didn't they want to
see you dance?
-Can't you see how desperate
you look?
I don't know how to make
it any clearer.
I do not want to be
with you, OK/
-Hey, Nick.
Um, sorry for my rapid
retreat yesterday.
-It's OK.
I have that effect
on people lately.
-Peckish?
So, I guess you're
living the life--
a bit of study, taking
girls to lunch?
-I thought you asked me?
Well medicine's more than
a bit of study.
-Sorry.
I'm sure it's tough.
-Whatever.
You probably know
all about me.
Oh, come on.
You knew my name.
You must have heard.
-Heard what?
-Forget it.
It's not lunchtime
conversation.
-You can tell me.
-Um, last year, I was involved
in an accident.
This kid, I hit him
with my car.
I just assumed you were one of
those emo psychology girls who
suddenly found me so much more
interesting afterwards.
Anyway, the police finding
was that--
that it was an accident, so I'm
not guilty or anything.
But, it's--
-Wow.
It's all about you, isn't it?
That kid?
His name was Sammy Lieberman,
and, oh, gosh, I am so sorry
he ruined your year.
-You wrote the deposition.
That's how I knew.
How long have you been
following me for?
-Don't worry.
That's over.
I just wanted to tell you know,
to tell you that you
killed the best person
I have ever known.
-The plan is in place.
This little monster is gaga
for Gaga tonight.
-So, anyway, I was thinking
that maybe we should have
dinner while I'm here.
I'd love to ask Javier about
his super yacht.
-Who?
-Did I pronounce it right?
Um, Javier.
Grace said he was Argentinian.
-She'd know.
Grace.
-I'm trying to make you look
interesting, and it's working.
So, go.
Reel him in.
-You expect to be treated like
an adult and then you persist
with this nonsense.
My private life is absolutely
none of your business.
-What private life,
Miss Raine?
I'm getting you one so you don't
have to leech the fun
out of mine.
-Don's sitting there,
haunting me.
Do you want to get
out of here?
-Why would I want
to be with him.
I mean, sure.
He did that whole half-baked
declaration
thing last year, but--
stop me if this gets
Christian weird.
-Totally fine.
-He seriously thinks I'm
clinging on to that.
Do you want to come catch the
tiniest glimpse of me at the
back of the corps?
-Uh, I think I'm just going
to grab some couch time.
-All's well in Katland?
See ya.
-I want to maximize the free
time, not control it.
But it just sits there, looming,
hours on hours.
[applause]
-This is meant to be
a hip hop thing.
It says right here.
-Hi, kiddies.
It's going to be a scintillating
night.
-Penny Drop's Magical Mardi
Gras Cabaret Experience.
-Now, all the way from
Twistbackastan, please pop
your pedals up for the
lovely Lillith!
-And we go.
-Ah!
I paid for you, and we
get a free entree.
Don't stop now.
-I'm sorry you didn't get to
go out with your friends.
Marcus--
he was my boyfriend all through
the Academy and then
as well in the Company.
-You crazy kids were in love?
-But then he left, and
I-- well, I stayed.
He had adventures, got married,
had children.
-The swine.
-When you started making up
stories to make me more
interesting, you hit
a soft spot.
-I wouldn't have done a
Javier if I'd known.
-You're right.
I could have told you.
I--
I know how to be a ballet
teacher in principle, but I
don't know how to be--
I'm not saying I see myself
as your mother.
I would never presume.
-I've never had a proper one, so
I wouldn't know if you were
doing it wrong anyway.
-No, no, no.
No, Grace, hang up.
-Stop.
Stop it.
-No, hang up.
Hang up.
Hello, Lucinda Raine.
Oh, no, you're right, Marcus.
I called you.
-If this works, I
can go to Gaga.
-Not a chance.
-They were like vultures,
waiting for
me to cry over Sammy.
-Do the girls really find
this act so dreamy?
-As if I'd use him like that.
-Think you're honoring Sammy?
You're exploiting his memory
as an excuse to drink.
And, yes, I am aware that's
hypocritical.
-Ooh, look at those pins.
Don't tell me I've got a
dancer in the audience.
-Guilty.
[laughing]
-Good.
I'll have to tell Stefan you're
watching he needs to
lift his game.
Why is the ones with the natural
talent always end up
so complacent?
It's the ego, surely.
Now, a little birdie told me
that there's a very special
boy out there who's ready to
throw in the dance towel, but
his friend wants to reignite
his passion flame.
Where's Christian?
Christian?
Oh, Christian.
Come on up.
Don't be shy.
Come on, everybody.
Let's give him some Magical
Cabaret courage.
[applause]
-Christian, Christian,
Christian, Christian,
Christian, Christian.
Come on, love.
-Woo!
-(SINGING) He's in the room,
you stop and stare.
He's a tease, hint of sleaze,
but a classy affair.
It's a fact, what an act,
he's a rabid star.
Get up, shake your butt,
baby, you've come far.
There's nothing in the world he
hadn't done before, with a
voice that is choice.
Hey, could you ask for more?
Appealing, revealing, the
dance floor's reeling.
The boy really knows how to--
I'm going to show you a diva.
Let me show you a diva.
Come on, Christian.
I think he's going
down the drain.
He isn't exactly twinkletoes,
is he?
Whoa!
It's a Mardi Gras miracle!
-(SINGING) I'm gonna
show you a--
I'm gonna show you--
make me show you a diva.
Come on, come on, I'm gonna
show you a diva!
I'm gonna show you a diva!
[applause]
-It's late, and you had
an early start.
-(WHISPERING) Christian!
-What is she doing?
-OK.
Donation chart.
Everyone's been chipping in,
just in case his scholarship
doesn't come through.
-It's at $76.
-Wait until the learning to
drive slash bikini car wash.
-This is--
you guys didn't need to--
-Look.
We already lost one
to mate last year.
We've missed you, Reed-o.
What do you want?
-Ohh, eggs and bacon.
-Bacon and eggs?
-I haven't been stalking you.
After the hearing, I had
to know what sort
of person you were.
-Once they told me it wasn't my
fault, then if Sammy wasn't
real-- like if--
if I didn't know his friends
or family, somehow I could
live with ti.
-How do you?
-I don't.
I don't live with it.
I think I just--
I show people what they
want to see, you know?
Like my parents, they want it
to be over and OK, so I
pretend like it is.
-I've been hating the guy who
killed Sammy ever since it
happened.
-And you should.
You should hate me.
I am so sorry.
KAT NARRATING: So, staying
positive--
how long do I have
to keep that up?
Because amazing seems
like a fair way off.
-Thanks for seeing me again.
I really appreciate your time.
KAT NARRATING: I'm at the
Academy with my friends.
I have this second chance
to get my life right.
-Gory details over lunch?
-Oh, I've already
promised Marcus.
Next time.
Oh.
KAT NARRATING: Everyone's always
said that if I just
stopped messing around--
suck it up, Kat.
Keep smiling.
It's the one thing you're
truly good at.
I worked hard on Marcus's
assignment, but I didn't end
up using Nick as the subject.
Instead, I chose a stranger--
someone I'm only starting to
figure out, someone I'm a
little scared of--
me.